[MAN] We were
supposed to see
one of the most important
discoveries of the 21st century.
[NARRATOR]
Nazca, Peru.
Home of
one of the most
mysterious archeological
sites on Earth.
A new mystery has emerged
from this remote location.
And it takes us
from what we see
above the ground
to what lies below.
We get a lot of leads
here at Gaia,
regarding new discoveries
or investigations,
but one particularly
interesting lead came to us
from a journalist
named Jaime Maussan.
[JAIME] My name
is Jaime Maussan.
I am an investigative
journalist,
and I have been working
as a journalist
for the last 47 years
of my life.
[MELISSA] He got word
of some mummies in Peru
that didn't look human.
We decided to go to Peru
and examine and see
if these were fake or real,
or what were they?
Our crew jumped
on an airplane
and flew from Colorado
to Lima, Peru
with cameras and
everything in tow.
Jaime also took
a camera crew with us.
We also took scientists.
We have a very important
mission here in Peru.
I came here
because it was
a group of scientists,
professionals, journalists.
Once the scientists arrive,
the body is revealed,
and they get to analyze it
for the first time.
[JAY] When he
brought it out
and pulled it
out of the box,
it was a stunned silence
at first.
[DR. KOROTKOV] It was
a prepared mummy.
The size of this humanoid
was 168 centimeters.
It was practically my size,
a little bit shorter.
So it means that this was a
person who was walking as we do,
who was able to move hands
as we have, with long legs.
So the proportion of the body
was very similar to ours.
It is an absolutely
authentic hand
with three long fingers,
very long.
[DR. BENITEZ] The three fingers
is a characteristic
that makes it unique
and unforgettable,
and that is what
exactly makes us think
that this does not belong
to a human species.
[DR. KOROTKOV] Then, of course,
very important-- the head.
That, of course, was
the most amazing.
It wasn't our rounded skull, but
it was a very protruded skull.
Very clear. And on the skull as
well, it was very, very natural.
Very interesting,
they had eyes and nose
and no ears,
only little holes.
[JAIME] The mummies are covered
completely in this white dust.
But it's not just white dust,
it's something that is going
to really dry the skin,
and the skin will be able to
survive for so many years.
[JAY] When Konstantin
pulled out the sample,
and we saw
the gray skin.
Then I knew because
I know that bodies,
when they reach that
level of decomposition,
they turn this
kind of slate gray.
So that, I felt
really good about.
[MELISSA] One of the most
important things
I think that we can do,
is to take samples.
And the samples
are important
for a couple of
reasons,
Carbon-14 testing
and DNA testing
where we can figure out
how old the possible creature is
and of course what
the genetic make-up of it is.
One of the labs that we sent a
sample to, for Carbon-14 dating,
came back, and the results were
anywhere from 245 AD to 410 AD.
One of the coolest things
that we got to do,
is we got to take the body
to get CAT scanned,
and we are currently getting
all of the information
from the CAT scans analyzed.
Could somebody
have gone in here,
and they did something
with the skull to change it?
They did something with
the hands to make it
have this appearance?
Based on the images that I'm
seeing here, it seems unlikely.
[MELISSA] Professor Korotkov
and his team in Russia
also analyzed the body, and
they've actually discovered
some very interesting evidence.
In layman terms, a mummy
is when organs are extracted.
So this is technically
not a mummy.
However in this case,
the body was mummified
but the organs
were not removed.
What was interesting is,
right after we saw the body,
we began looking
at some nearby petroglyphs,
and we discovered a humanoid
figure in the petroglyphs
in the mountains
that had three fingers.
[DR. KOROTKOV]
I've seen many images
of South American cultures.
I would think it's the
imagination of someone...
all myths, all religious
beliefs of ancient peoples.
They are based
on some reality.
[JAY] So we're wondering what
we are really dealing with here.
[MELISSA] Gaia is completely
committed to this story.
We're going to let you know if
it's human, if it's non-human.
Like I said, our whole mission
is just pure curiosity.
What could it be?
And to honestly give a
journalistic approach to that.
That is our mission. And that's
what we hope to bring to you.
This is just the beginning.
This is not the end,
not even with the samples.
There is so much more to comb.
[KONSTANTIN]
From my point of view,
there is no way
that it is some deformity
of the human body.
It is absolutely a different
structure of all skeletons.
And it belongs to another
creature, another humanoid.